Let's go back to one that actually
might be useful for you sometimes,
especially for
my friends that like doing animations.
This one's to pay attention to.
Let's go talk about one
that's called layout effect.
So use layout effect.
We've seen effect before use effect.
But what I was telling you before is
use layout effect or sorry, use effect.
Is scheduled and
you don't know when it's gonna run.
And that's a problem because sometimes
you need that function to immediately run
right after right.
So if I have layout effect component here,
if I wanna measure what this is
immediately after I let go of this,
I need this to execute immediately
after the event has happened.
So I need the render to happen.
And then I need the next thing that
react runs to be my effect, right?
Those things must follow
each other immediately.
If that's your case, and you have
a constraint that like you can't have
anything scheduled between them,
there's a function called layout effect.
Which actually works more.
That's how component did update used
to work still works might still work
that way.
So if you're migrating
from a class based react
component to a functions and
hooks based component.
Which by the way you don't
necessarily have to do it's fine to
leave class components in your code base.
You might need to use layout effect if
you're trying to capture component update
correctly.
Because this is the behavior of how
component did update still works.
So, let's talk about it again.
Effect is scheduled.
There might be stuff that happens after
your component finishes rendering.
Use layout effect happens immediately
after your render finishes.
So again, this is gonna be useful for
people that are doing things like
animation because you need to
capture immediately after this
component finishes rendering.
Where is this in this particular case, I'm
measuring the height and the area of this.
I'm also using a ref to
keep a handle on this box.
Let's see,
I think if I put this as use effect.
To import that, use effect.
Scroll down here.
So it actually is able to render this
fairly accurate most of the time, but
the problem is that you could have
animations that are coming in here in
between them and modifying it.
And so at the end of it,
you're actually not gonna be guaranteed.
But you're getting the correct number
because there could be things in between
there that could be happening.
So, the key here with use layout
effect is that you just need
to have that guarantee of
the immediacy of execution.
And again with things like animations
that becomes very important or
anything that you're like
measuring the DOM after that.
So I think that's probably the best rule
of thumb I can think of at the moment.
If you're measuring the DOM taking
width and height measurements and
things like that.
That's gonna be a good use cases I might
need to use layout effect instead of
effect, if you need those
kind of guarantees.
In this case,
it ends up not being terribly important.
But yeah, there you go.
You typically don't need to do it.
I'll put it that way.
And it's more performance to do effect
because react is really good at
scheduling things.
Yeah, that's actually probably
a really good question.
So I have L equals use ref here.
And I'm just creating
right now the container.
And then if you look down here at
the text area, I'm saying ref equals L.
This is just saying, hey, I want the ref
to always refer to this text area.
It's and here you can see
inside of the set width and
set height that can refer to current and
current facts.
Let's just put console dot log.
L dot current.
Then if I look here in the console,
you can see here it is this text area.
That one.
So that's what ref does is like, because
what's hard about this is react can create
and destroy that text
area a bunch of times.
You don't know when it's going
to create it and destroy it.
And so by putting the ref = el here,
you're actually guaranteed that it's going
to refer to the current text area
being rendered on the screen.
It's good question.
That's another really good use case for
refs is referring to DOM elements
in within your react application.
Pretty simple again 99.99% of the time,
just use the fact it's fine.
You don't need to use layout effect.
It's really for I need guarantees, right?
Like millisecond guarantees, basically.
So this could be the difference between
a animation looking like really jumpy or
like, I'm going here and then I'm
hopping here because the measurement was
incorrect or
looking very smooth all the way across.
So I was there a question?
>> Yeah.
So if we said in line number four,
if we set the width to 20,
it's not taking any width and height.
How do we set the predefined width and
height?
>> Line 28 yeah,
I mean that's a good example this as well.
So if I just click on it,
I think I set this so
that whenever you click on it,
it sets the width to zero.
This way I'm still able to
measure correctly whereas
if I do lay out or
if I do effect here and I do this and
I click on this, all right,
so I have this text area,
I make this 150 and
now this is using effect over here.
If I click on this,
I can register a click event.
Notice this is no longer correct,
this width and
height because I measured it too early
right because the in that millisecond,
because effect happened later, and
the click event happened sooner.
This now width is incorrectly or
the height,
I mean, it's just incorrect, right?
This is obviously not a width one or
a height 147 because what was happening
before is a drag event on a text area is
not actually an event in react, right?
It's like okay,
you dragged it, I don't care.
I'm not gonna re render that because
nothing changed according to react.
So if I don't put a set width on
there because now it's actually doing
the measuring.
Got it, okay.
So, I'm looping back around
to my understanding of this,
it took me a second, effect you can
see here is actually normally correct.
So if I come back into effect,
this is normally going to be correct for
everything that you do.
However, you are not
guaranteed this is correct.
Now if you're doing like a bunch of
stuff like especially animations
where you're like really tying up,
that thread, there could be enough
time between when you modify it and when
you measure it that could be out of sync.
And that's a problem.
When you do it with use layout effect, you
have an absolute guarantee that that is
going to be the correct measurement as
soon as that user is done dragging that.
Okay, that is the correct solution.
It just took me a second to get there.